content: Add attested build environments level requirements (#1051)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/v1.1/requirements.md

  <th>Implementer
  <th>Requirement
  <th>Degree

>   <th>L1<th>L2<th>L3<th>L4

Author: This isn't an html style I've seen before either, but this is used through all the docs, apparently, and renders well.

>   <th>L1<th>L2<th>L3<th>L4

Reviewer: The end tag of many HTML elements is optional, that is the case of the `th`, `td`, and `tr` elements. There is nothing wrong with this. It is very common in HTML written by hand because it saves a lot of typing and possible errors.

https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#optional-tags

substantial changes to both the build platform and each individual build, and is
considered in the [future directions](future-directions.md).

<td> <td> <td>✓<td>✓
<tr id="hardware-attested">
<td>Hardware-Attested
<td>

> The build platform generated an authenticated attestation to the integrity

Reviewer 2: That is, generating an _in-toto_ attestation about the entire initial state of the build environment?

We may run into confusion here between attestation and attestation:

> The process of vouching for the accuracy of information.

from [TCG Glossary](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG-Glossary-V1.1-Rev-1.0.pdf), and

> An authenticated statement (metadata) about a software artifact or collection of software artifacts.

from [SLSA Terminology](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/terminology)

It might be worth adding a note to clarify to readers who have familiarity with both terms.

> of the entire initial state of the build environment (i.e., VM/container

Author: To clarify, you specifically mean the case where a container is used within a VM, right? My intent here was more to cover the scenario in which container-only build images are used. Whether or not containers are sufficient to achieve L3, I think is a related but separate question.

image, kernel, and filesystem) was generated at creation time and verified
at deployment time. The build platform also attested to the build request.
In other words, tampering with the initial state of the build environment

> MUST be detectable by the platform itself and the build.

Reviewer 2: "an the build."... executor? agent?

The build platform MUST guarantee the following:

> -   When creating a new build environment:

Reviewer 3: I just got to the terminology file, I think just "creating a new build image" would be appropriate given that terminology

> -   When creating a new build environment:

Author: Good catch, this bullet point should say "build image". In terms of unloading the term "image" more, I'm thinking we could use the term "filesystem" whenever the text says "disk image". wdyt?

> -   When creating a new build environment:

Reviewer 4: Hibernation and other things probably are affected by bootability of an image. It would be good to ensure container terminology and vm terminology are distinct as it loos like both cases are being captured: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/pull/1051/files#r1612031706

> -   When creating a new build environment:

Author: Let's move this discussion to #1107

    -   The integrity of the build image (i.e., VM or container) MUST be
        authenticated and verifiable. That is, SLSA Build L3+ Provenance for
        the build image MUST be generated and distributed to allow for
        independent verification.
    -   The boot process of each build environment MUST be measured and
        attested using a [TCG-compliant measured boot] mechanism. In

>         addition, the initial state of the build environment's disk image

Reviewer 5: There are reasons for the disk image to not be entirely measured, so this seems like it could be too coarse of a requirement. There are ways security-critical components of user space are measured. They go past the PCRs 0-7 in the TCG-compliant measured boot link.

This whole disk integrity would disallow content-addressed build caches that already have SLSA attestations, such as what Bazel.build uses for performance.

The fact of the matter is that we have bespoke ways of evaluating attestation evidence and specifying policy for their acceptance. There is no standard since OSes consider different things to be security-critical.

Perhaps, "every file read from disk must be integrity-protected by some means traceable to the build environment identity or build request"

Author: I'll be closing this PR soon. Let's move this discussion to #1107 !

        MUST be integrity measured and attested. The boot and disk
        attestations MUST be distributed to allow for independent
        verification.
-   When deploying a new build environment:
    -   The build image's SLSA Provenance MUST be verified to ensure the
        VM/container image has not been tampered with.
    -   The boot process and state of disk image attestations MUST be
        verified to ensure the guest kernel and filesystem have not been
        tampered with.
    -   A unique immutable build environment identifier (e.g.,
        cryptographic keypair) MUST be generated and cryptographically bound
        to the build environment via attestation. This *deploy-time
        attestation* MUST be generated only after build image, boot process
        and disk image integrity have been verified, and distributed to
        allow for independent verification.
-   When accepting a new build request (e.g., GHA build job):

>     -   The build environment's deploy-time attestation and uniqueness of its

Reviewer 5: What does this mean? I imagine that the SLSA L4 attestation signing key would be deleted from memory after use from a previous build job, so yes you'd need to re-establish the attestation with the key management service, but only AFTER the build request has completed. You don't want the key material in memory while an untrusted build process is taking place, even if it is isolated.

Who does the build environment attestation verification? It seems like the build job is accepting itself from this wording. The build requester would not necessarily be the one with an appropriate attestation verification policy to apply before even initiating a build request, but maybe that's what you meant? Is a build request supposed to happen over an attested channel?

        immutable identifier MUST be verified to ensure the initial state
        of the build environment has not been tampered with.
    -   A unique immutable build identifier (e.g., GHA build job
        ID) MUST be generated and cryptographically bound to the build
        environment via attestation. This *request-time attestation*
        MUST be generated only after the deploy-time attestation has been
        verified, and distributed to allow for independent verification.
    -   Run-time changes to the build environment's disk image SHOULD be
        observable at run-time by the executing build. These changes NEED NOT
        be attested.

> -   Boot, disk, deploy- and request-time attestations MUST be authenticated

Reviewer 5: I don't think request-time attestation is what's desirable. Although it could be an enhancement for tenant confidentiality, i.e., "I don't want to release my code to a builder I haven't vetted."
For build integrity, we want response-time attestation in order for both input and output resource descriptors to be cryptographically bound to the attestation. This prevents replay attacks given that the attestations are meant to be verified offline (i.e., not during the build process where the environment could respond to a cryptographic challenge for freshness).

>     by a hardware root of trust (e.g., [TPM] or [trusted execution

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    by a DRTM (e.g., [TPM] or [trusted execution
```
